README.md, before:

# TKXS Component Library

[Component Documentation](https://technekes.github.io/cast-ui/)

## Usage

### Installation

The library depends on [styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/)
as well as React.

To install with all peer dependencies:

```
npm install @tkxs/cast-ui styled-components react react-dom --save
```

or

```
yarn add @tkxs/cast-ui styled-components react react-dom
```

The package includes UMD (`/lib-umd`), CommonJS (`/lib-cjs`), and ES5 modules (`/lib-esm`).
Type definitions are included with CommonJS and ES5 modules.

### Components

Components in this library must receive a theme object as
[documented](https://technekes.github.io/cast-ui/). To achieve this,
use the `ThemeProvider`, which is passed on from
[styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/docs/advanced#theming).
If no theme is provided, components will fall back to a default theme.

```
import React, { Component } from "react";
import logo from "./logo.svg";
import { Button, ThemeProvider, Themes } from "@tkxs/cast-ui";
import "./App.css";

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <ThemeProvider theme={Themes.defaultTheme}>
        <Button btnStyle="primary">Click for Awesomeness</Button>
      </ThemeProvider>
    );
  }
}

export default App;

```

Import and use the desired component.

```
import { Button } from '@tkxs/cast-ui';
...

const AwesomeButton = () => {
  return (
    <Button btnStyle="success">Click for Awesomeness</Button>
  )
}
```

## Development

This project is configured to run in Docker containers facilitated by
`docker-compose`. [nib](https://github.com/technekes/nib) is our tool of
choice for interacting with `docker-compose` in development.

### Running Storybook

Use [nib](https://github.com/technekes/nib) to build and start up the node
server. To optimize `npm install` this project is using a volume for
`node_modules`. To initialize `node_modules`, run `nib setup web`.

```sh
nib build --pull
nib setup web
nib up web
```

Visit [http://localhost:6006/](http://localhost:6006/) to view the app.

### Development Workflow

Cast uses [semantic-release](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
to manage versions and releases. The `master` branch automatically deploys a release
where versioning is calculated based on commits since the last git tag.

#### Commit Formatting

These commits must follow the default
[Angular commit conventions](https://github.com/angular/angular.js/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md#-git-commit-guidelines).
Commitizen is available to assist in constructing commits with the appropriate format.
To use this, run `yarn commit` or `npm run commit` instead of `git commit`. This will
walk through a series of questions to build the right commit meessage. When PRs are
squashed, the title of the PR is used as the header.

#### Branches

We currently use two main branches for releases:

- `beta` is a pre-release branch
- `master` is the production branch

Commits on these branches will trigger new releases.

When starting a new feature or bug fix, create a branch from `beta`. This will add your
work to the collection of work going out in the next release and allow for a beta release
to be tested by QA and other teams before going out in production.

#### Local Testing

Local testing should be covered by the developer. To test locally, follow these steps:

In `cast-ui`:

1. Branch from `beta`
2. Make changes
3. Change version number in `package.json`
4. `npm run build`
5. `npm pack` => creates a `.tgz` file in the project

In project using the package:

1. `npm uninstall @tkxs/cast-ui`
2. `npm install path/to/pacakage.tgz`
3. Test changes thoroughly

Suggestion: Since the `.tgz` files create clutter over time, create a script to create the pack,
move it somewhere you can clean up later, and copy the path to your clipboard.

When the developer is confident in the work, the branch can be merged to `beta`.

#### Releases

When merging to `beta`:

- The feature branch should be squashed with a single commit message that follows the commit conventions above. This helps keeps sanity when looking at the commit history.
- The single commit should represent the most impactful change. For example, if 3 commits (a `fix`, `feat`, and a `BREAKING CHANGE`) get squashed to one, the prefix should be `BREAKING CHANGE`. Or if 2 commits (a `fix` and `feat`) get squashed, the prefix should be `feat`.
- If the single commit does not contain a prefix, the build will fail and no beta release will be created.

When merging from `beta` to `master`:

- `beta` should be merged into `master`, not squashed, preserving the commits.

### Linting

Ideally you have lint integration setup in you editor (Vim, VSCode etc).
If not or for mass lint checks run.

```sh
nib run web npm run lint
```

Commit message:

fix(readme): update readme to remove nib usage

README.md, after:

# TKXS Component Library

[Component Documentation](https://technekes.github.io/cast-ui/)

## Usage

### Installation

The library depends on [styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/)
as well as React.

To install with all peer dependencies:

```
npm install @tkxs/cast-ui styled-components react react-dom --save
```

or

```
yarn add @tkxs/cast-ui styled-components react react-dom
```

The package includes UMD (`/lib-umd`), CommonJS (`/lib-cjs`), and ES5 modules (`/lib-esm`).
Type definitions are included with CommonJS and ES5 modules.

### Components

Components in this library must receive a theme object as
[documented](https://technekes.github.io/cast-ui/). To achieve this,
use the `ThemeProvider`, which is passed on from
[styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/docs/advanced#theming).
If no theme is provided, components will fall back to a default theme.

```
import React, { Component } from "react";
import logo from "./logo.svg";
import { Button, ThemeProvider, Themes } from "@tkxs/cast-ui";
import "./App.css";

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <ThemeProvider theme={Themes.defaultTheme}>
        <Button btnStyle="primary">Click for Awesomeness</Button>
      </ThemeProvider>
    );
  }
}

export default App;

```

Import and use the desired component.

```
import { Button } from '@tkxs/cast-ui';
...

const AwesomeButton = () => {
  return (
    <Button btnStyle="success">Click for Awesomeness</Button>
  )
}
```

### Running Cast Locally

```sh
git checkout beta
npm i
npm run start
```

Visit [http://localhost:6006/](http://localhost:6006/) to view the app.

### Cast Development Workflow

Cast uses [semantic-release](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
to manage versions and releases. The `master` branch automatically deploys a release
where versioning is calculated based on commits since the last git tag.

#### Commit Formatting

These commits **must** follow the default
[Angular commit conventions](https://github.com/angular/angular.js/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md#-git-commit-guidelines).
Commitizen is available to assist in constructing commits with the appropriate format.
To use this, run `yarn commit` or `npm run commit` instead of `git commit`. This will
walk through a series of questions to build the right commit meessage. When PRs are
squashed, the title of the PR is used as the header.

#### Branches

We currently use two main branches for releases:

- `beta` is a pre-release branch
- `master` is the production branch

Commits on these branches will trigger new releases.

When starting a new feature or bugfix, create a branch from `beta`. This will add your
work to the collection of work going out in the next release and allow for a beta release
to be tested by QA and other teams before going out in production.

Example branch names:

- `fix(select): update select border`
- `feat(button): add new prop`
- `BREAKING CHANGE: remove a certain prop from all components`

**Note: a space after the `:` is necessary for the build to work**

#### Local Testing

Local testing should be covered by the developer. To test locally, follow these steps:

In `cast-ui`:

1. Branch from `beta` using the above conventions
2. Make changes
3. Change version number in `package.json`
4. `npm run build`
5. `npm pack` => creates a `.tgz` file in the project

In project using the package:

1. `npm uninstall @tkxs/cast-ui`
2. `npm install path/to/pacakage.tgz`
3. Test changes thoroughly

Suggestion: Since the `.tgz` files create clutter over time, create a script to create the pack,
move it somewhere you can clean up later, and copy the path to your clipboard.

When the developer is confident in the work, a PR should be opened against `beta` for approval.

#### Releases

When merging to `beta`:

- The feature branch should be **squashed** with a single commit message that follows the commit conventions above. This helps keeps sanity when looking at the commit history.
- The single commit should represent the most impactful change. For example, if 3 commits (a `fix`, `feat`, and a `BREAKING CHANGE`) get squashed to one, the prefix should be `BREAKING CHANGE`. Or if 2 commits (a `fix` and `feat`) get squashed, the prefix should be `feat`.
- **If the single commit does not contain a prefix, the build will fail and no beta release will be created.**

When merging from `beta` to `master`:

- `beta` should be merged into `master`, not squashed, preserving the commits.

### Linting

Ideally you have lint integration setup in you editor (Vim, VSCode etc).
If not or for mass lint checks run.

```sh
npm run lint
```
